# Module: manifest and init
    The 2 most important files to let Odoo know that they are a module. And for the module to work.

    1. Maniest : contains all the details about the module(app) itself, like name,security, etc, etc
    2. init : contains all the imports

# Class:
    1. Model : is the heart of the module, it stores all the inportant data init and connects to the files or forms or trees later on.
    2. Abstract : is atype of model that does not store any kind of data in the db.
    3. Transient : stores the data for a temporary period of time (cache type of data)

# Class attributes:
    1. _name : used to give the name of the database like 'hospital.patient' where 'hospital' is the model and 'patient' is the name of the model, it is represented in the database as 'hospital_patient'
    2. _inherit : inherits a model in another model | are of 2 types: classic(without _name) & prototype(with _name)
    3. _order : Controls the default ordering of records when fetched. _order = 'create_date desc' # create_date is a column in the table in db  # Default order: latest first
    4. _rec_name : Record name (title name) that will be used to display the records when fetched.
    5. _description : Provides a human-readable description of the model (displayed in the UI and logs).
    6. SQL Constraints : gives rules to view, store,.. data in the database 
    7. Python Constraints (api constrains -decorators) : have the logic that is to be applied to the data in a model. like email validation, phone number validation, age not -ve,.. 

    added a few more python constrains for the project like email, phone number 

# Fields:
    Char : for short strings (text) | Up to 256 by default (can be extended) | 1 byte + string length (UTF-8)
    Integer : for numbers | -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647 (32-bit signed)	| 4 bytes
    Float : for decimal values | Up to ~15 decimal digits (64-bit float) | 8 bytes
    Date : Stores date in format (YYYY-MM-DD) | (2025-04-30) | 	4 bytes
    Datetime : Stores both date and time in format | uses GMT to store in database  | 8 bytes  
    Boolean : for True or False ( used to see active or not ) | 1 byte
    Binary : for storing files and images as they are stored in binary | if int 4bytes | if char 1 byte
    Html : for rich text/html taging like xml decleration (used to write Descriptions) | variable
    Selection : fixed drop down | variable like binary
    Text : for Notes | variable
    Monetary : For currency-based values. Requires a currency field | have to activate from the UI side | by default it is USD | 8 bytes (float) + foreign key
    Many2one : Many records link to one record of another model. | 4 bytes (foreign key) | calls and connects to the database thorugh primary key
    One2many : One record relates to many records in another model | not stored in db - in the form of list | but can be visible in the comodel table under the inverse name field
    Many2many : connects individually eventhough listed under same name | comodel, relation, column1, column2 | rest if not written, will be generated by odoo itself


# Field Attributes:
    Compute : used to do any operations on a input variable | does not store the value in the database unless it is said so | Create a function in the class and give the class name as its attribute in x as ' (compute= x) '
    Inverse : Paired with compute, allows two-way binding, makes the compute field writeable as it previously is not writeable
    Search : Defines a custom method to search on computed fields | Required if the field is computed and you want it searchable | Returns a domain (list of tuples).
    Store : Stores the value of a computed field in the database.
    Related : creates a field that temporary and mirrors (tracks and actively display all the changes in the actual db ) a field in a related model
    String : Defines the label (name) of the field in the UI.
    Readonly : Makes a field non-editable in the UI.
    Required : Makes the field mandatory.
    Copy : Controls whether a field's value is copied during duplication.
    Help : Adds tooltip/help text in the UI.
    Default : Provides a default value when creating a new record | usually used with boolean 
    Comodel_name : Used with relational fields like Many2one, One2many, Many2many to define the related model | Without it, Odoo won’t know which model to link to.
    Domain : Restricts selection in relational fields | eg: domain="[('is_company','=',True)]") - can only select from them who's 'is_company' exists.
    Context : Effect- When creating a new variable in table, the default value is_company=True will be pre-filled.
    Ondelete : Defines behavior when the related record is deleted (used in Many2one only) | Type: 'cascade', 'set null', 'restrict', 'set default'
    Relation : Used in Many2many fields to define the related model | Type: string (model name)
    Column1 : Names of linking columns used in many2many relation table.
    Column2 : Names of linking columns used in many2many relation table.
    Tracking : used in tracking changes in table in a database
    Index : Adds a database index for faster search/sorting (especially for large datasets).
    Translate : Marks a Char, Text, or Html field translatable for multiple languages.
    States : Makes the field's behavior dynamic based on a selection field value.Eg: from edit to ready-only when the conditions match | 
             Type: dict (key = state, value = UI modifiers).Eg: amount = fields.Float(states={'done': {'readonly': True}})

# View:
    Tree : given as horizontal stack view 
    Form : as a form with fields and tracking messages in it | more detailed as compared to tree
    Kanban : gives in a tabular(cellular)view
    Calander : events are show in calender
    Graph (All graphs) : bar, line and pie graph form with views an widgets
    Pivot : pivot table with add able columns 
    Gantt : in js
    Cohert : in js
    Dashboard : in js
    Search View : search view give filter and group by sections to edit

# Method Decorators :
    one : works on one record for example: self.full_name = f"{self.first_name} {self.last_name}"
    multi : works on recordset using for loop to create,write a record.

    depends : edits the fields after you hit save | is used when we want to use the compute method every time a field is updated ( changed or added )
    onchange : edits the fields before you save the change | used when you want active response in UI 
    constrain : give a constrain like age limit | kind of validation on the js file.
     # for the remaining decorators, we'll need orm to understand them, so mid way starting with ORM
    model : used when you want changes in the working model itself | Eg: I want to give values to missed values while filling a form, can be done with the help of ( create, write )
    model_create_multi : used when you want to change multiple records (recordsets) at once in a model.
    returns : 


# ORM Methods:

    These are override methods.

    Create: Called when : Creating new records (e.g., form save, button action)
            Decorator : multiple decorators can be used for this method
            Return : returns a new record
            Super : yes, is required, wont work without it, super calls the parent class eg - return super().create(vals)
            self : Refers to the model (not a record)
            vals : Dictionary of field values
        For me, runs when I create a record.
        For create we use @api.model when we want only one model and we use model_create_multi when we want to send a list a of dict (give multiple edits) models to be created.

    Write:  Called when: Want to update one or more records
            Decorator: Ususally used with decorator multi (depricated by odoo from version 13) and default is recordset method
            Return: bool- true if successful, false if not
            Self: recordset (usually one or many) 
            Vals: Dictionary of updated fields.
        For me, runs when I edit a record. ( tried using print statement )
        For editing/setting a particular value to the model or database3

    Unlink: Called when: When deleting records
            Decorator: Recordset method as default
            Return: Boolean (True if deleted)
            self: Recordset to delete
            vals: Not needed as it does not have an args
        For soft or hard deleting, kind of permission setting.

    Search: Called when: You get ID field based on the condition you put in , When clicked button in this case. (as I created and relayed it's action in a button)
            Decorator: Recordset as default
            Return: Recordset (tuple) (of ids/ records/ data) of data that fall in the catagory or search constrain 
            Self: Takes ID in self from the defined/connected database
            Vals: Not needed as it does not have an args
        For searching records with specific column filter applied to it.

    Browse: Called when: When you want other fields bases on id , When called it takes an argument like 'browse(id)'
            Decorator: Recordset by default
            Return: Full Recordsets
        For getting the whole record from only a piece, like calling the whole record based on id.

    Read:   Kind of an extention of Search method.
            Called when: After Search, you want to see the values stored under other column name.
            Return: recordset for the columns asked for, eg: .read(['name', 'age'])
        For reading details about every record that is given back by the search method. For directly viewing from search, for loop is required, to which 'read' is the alternative .

    Copy:   Called when we want to copy a record but with a few custom changes in it.
            Decorator: Returns (works even if not used) & recordset.
            Return: Recordset of the created (copied) value
            self: recordset with old values.
        For copying, first the copy method is called, which calls the create method, later (if editing to the created recordset is done) write method is called, finally the copy method is ended

    Search_read:
            Called when: want to get data from search and then relay it in read. Basically read and search as one.
            Decorator: no decorator needed.
            Return: return Recordsets based on the filter domain.
            Self: itrates over the recordsets like a pointer over a list.

    Read_group
            Called when: want to get read records by group.
            Decorator: not required.
            Return: Recordset based on the searched.
            Self: itrates over recordsets.

    Name_search:
            Called when: want to get records similar to the input string, like a part of name: 'shifu' for the name 'Shifuji Copy..'
            Decorator: not required
            Return: Recordsets based on the input and matching schema
            Self: itrates over the rs.

    Name_get: Does NOT have super in its return, So iterates over a singular record.
            Called when: want to get name of the record
            Decorator: none used
            Return: Record that was in self, just with all details added
            self: No super, iterates over just it's own record, does not move at all.

    default_get:
            Called when: by default called every time to give default values to the fields while creating a new record.
            Decorator: model decorator is used by default as it works on the same model itself.
            return: defaults values to pass, nothing to store, as it created none.
            self: false, as the record it is working on has no id no nothing to store.

# Exception Handling:
    - Every exception when raised will temporarily stop the working code block ( function ), if not in an 'if' statement.
    Validation Error : Used to raise validation issues (e.g., wrong input values)
    User Error : Used to block operations with a simple error dialog to users.
    Redirect Error : Gives error + suggests a redirection to another model/view
    Warning Error : Generic warning; less used in recent versions — UserError is usually preferred. But it's still valid in legacy code. | Depricated in odoo v17+

# static:
  # description:
        # icon : used to add icon into the module.
        # web_icon : used to give icon to the app in the menu list | the above icon just wont give icon to the app in menu list ( wont display )
        # index.html : used to give description to the module application | like the learn more button.
  # src:
        # css: used to give css to the already existing UI.
        # scss: super css | contains Operators, Variables, Nesting, Minxin, Parameters, Partials.
        # img: has images saved to relay them back to the website of the index.html page.


# security:
  # groups:
        Defined in security.xml kind of file, Used to add user Groups to the module. a User is assigned to a group to gain access to the listed menu items, recordsets.
  # record rules:
        Works on records . Used to apply dynamic row-level security on a model. Unlike 'access rights' (which are static), 'record rules' can apply conditions. file name goes like 'record-rules.xml' in the 'security' folder.
  # access rights:
        Works on the whole model. Defined for base user group in the 'ir.model.access.csv' file. Access for all the tables in the database is to be given to the 'base.group_user' in this csv, and to be edit from the group.xml with noUpdate=1

# Wizard:
        Very helpful in developing a good user experience by creating Interactive sessions (helps store temporary data like cookies). Works on/in transient models.
  
# Demo Data:
    Is added when you create the database for the first time.
    Defined in xml. Adds demo data tu the database.
    Not to be added to the server. Whereas data in Data Files are to be added to the server.

# Data Files:
    To be added to server.
  # Sequence:
        Give sequence with prefix (like 'HP001') to a records (as it's reference number).
        Stored in 'ir.sequence' and computed from there itself.
  # Data Records: 
        Add datasets or recordsets to the module. 
        Eg: Add a list of datasets for many2one field. 
  # Qweb Templated: - Actions
    | Tag                                | Description                                                                           |
    | ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
    | `<t>`                              | Core QWeb tag used for many purposes like conditions, loops, variables, calls, etc.   |
    | `<template>`                       | Declares a reusable template block. Can be extended, inherited, or used via `t-call`. |
    | `<xpath>`                          | Used in template inheritance to locate and modify parts of existing templates.        |
    | `<div>`, `<span>`, `<table>`, etc. | Standard HTML tags allowed and rendered normally.                                     |
    attf: used to pass python expression or variable in qweb.
    att: Used to format string directly into the odoo qweb.
  # Window Action (act_window):
        Used to display view type - form, tree, kanban, etc.
  # Server Action (ir.actions.server):
        Executes Python code on the server (via model method or Python code block).
  # Report Action (.report):
        Generates and downloads/prints a report (PDF, etc.).
  # URL Action (.act_url):
        Opens a URL in a new tab or window.
  # Schedule Action (ir.cron) | aka Cron Job:
        Used to do Automated code runs on server side.

# Controllers:
        Controllers are like filters used to seperate content for every individual group (like netflix's movie recomendation system).
  # URL route:
        1. Route:   route is like an entry gate for data to pass through.
                    It is defined in the model as http.route. Used to give the path where we want to display the content.
        2. Type:    2- http / json. I have worked on http only as of now.
                    Used to give the type of relay for the information to be displayed.
        3. Auth:    authentication of user for it's type.
        4. Website: let's odoo know if the url should be served as a website or not.
        5. Methods: Used in url relaying, Are of 2 Types: GET and POST.
        6. Multilang: Enables translation support in the URL. Eg: @http.route(['/contact'] can have --> /en/contact, /fr/contact, /gu/contact  based on the language active in the database.
        7. Cors: Cross-Origin Resource Sharing – allows requests from other domains (mostly used with JSON APIs).
        8. csrf: Cross-Site Request Forgery. Controls CSRF protection. Relevant for POST requests. (cannot take content from middle like explained in Computer Networking)
  # Request.env:
        request.env takes/requests information from the given database table. Taking information from the env ( env of the data table you have defined ).
  # Class Inheritance:
        inheritance is of 2 types python inheritance and view/xml type of inheritance. A class is inherited into a new file and then aditional things are added into it for the betterment of the code. This method is used when we want to add something in base without actually changing it.
  # Rendering Template:
        rendering template is done from the xml side. It's basically using the pre defined modules like 'website' to give a general layout to the page.

# Website:
  # Template:
    # Page structure: it is defining how the structure in a xml file looks like. and that of the web page too.
    # Website menu: Creating a menu or page on the website template using code, using controllers and website layouts.
    # Template attributes:
        # Name: used to give name to the template menu or webpage just created.
        # Customize Show: Is a boolean field that if set true, will show the particular template layout as 'Editable' on the UI's Editor side.
        # Active: Will decide if the given template set active to be visible or not.
        # inherit id: Will help inherit a particular template and either override it or add to it.
    # XMl Attributes:
        # t-if, t-elif, t-else : conditional statements for xml to take logic and work on it.
        # t-set , t-value : used as declaration variables. kinda works like key value pair (dict/object) 
        # t-att : used to call values from the database table.
        # t-attf : used to parse python logic from front (xml) side to (back) python side.
        # t-call :used to call build in methods of template classes, like ' t-call="website.layout/page" '
        # t-esc OR t-out : (esc is depricated) used to fetch values from the database table.
        # t-raw : Use with caution, used to define direct HTMl codes in the template.
        # t-field : Used in reports, emails, and forms to automatically apply formatting, translations, and widget logic.
        # t-options : Commonly used with t-field to control how a value is displayed (like setting currency, date formats, etc.)
        # t-debug : Rarely used in production templates. Helpful when debugging XML rendering in development.
        # t-extend : Works kinda like inherit_id, used to extend the template in same file. Used in website templates to modify a part of another template (e.g., snippets, footers).
        # t-jquery: Used with t-extend to identify which DOM node to manipulate.
        # t-operation : Defines the type of DOM operation to perform on the target selected with t-jquery.
        # t-log: Prints variables to browser console for debugging.
        # t-js : rarely used. Used to inject JavaScript code inside templates.
